# Daily Calm - Emotional Rollercoaster

Welcome to [this meditation]. I'm [insert name], and in today's session, we'll explore how to soften anxiety.
Start by finding a comfortable position, rest your hands gently on your lap, and when you're ready, close your eyes, and just straighten your spine as best as you can.
You can imagine a string at the top of your head pulling you up nice and tall.
You want to feel alert, but relaxed. And you may notice you feel your mind may be busy, or your emotions may feel intense.
So, if that's the case, just notice that as you settle in... (5 second wait)
And now let's take a few deep inhales and exhales to help release any stressful thoughts, distractions, and anticipations... inhaling fully (5 second wait)
and exhaling completely, letting all your muscles relax... (5 second wait)
And with each breath, feel as though your muscles are almost melting (5 second wait)
And as you allow your breath to settle into a full but easy rhythm, take a moment to notice the length of your inhales and exhales.
Do they feel balanced?

Is one part of the breath longer than the other?

Without forcing or creating any tension, see if you can balance the length of your inhales and exhales.
So if your out breaths are brief, simply count the pace of your inhale, and then gradually lengthen your exhales until they're both equal
If your inhales feel short, count the duration of your exhale and progressively extend your in-breaths, then for the next few minutes, balance each inhale and each exhale

(wait 3 minutes)

And for these last few moments, feeling the support of the earth beneath you, see if you can expand your awareness into your whole body feeling the breath fill you up.

Inhale calming breath... the soothing breath... exhale...
feel a sense of grounding...

and now, gently relax your attention...

(Tamara's Story):
not long ago, i visited a friend of mine while she was watching the soccer game, or "football match" depending on where you live in the world.
watching her celebrate and agonize with every goal and whistle, it was a living example of how our passions can put us through a rollercoaster of emotions.
For my friend, the most stressful moment of all came at the end of the game when the score was tied and it was time for a penalty shootout.
As my friend explained to me, the shootout is the moment of sudden triumph or elimination.
The moment where you hide your eyes and watch through the gaps in your fingers.
The fate of your beloved team has come down to this, in the end, perhaps a single kick of the ball.
My friend sat frozen before the tv, her heartrate spiking, her stomach in knots. 
I didn't know which team I was rooting for yet even I found myself wound up by the exitement.
So, in this nerve-racking situation, how can we soften our anxiety?
How can we ease our tension and find more enjoyment in this sport we're so passionate about?
The starting place is to focus on a single deep breath.

When we're anxious, our breathing has likely become rapid, irregular, and shallow.
By pausing to take some deliberate deep breaths, we can regulate our breathing and soften physical tension.
The breath also serves as a guide to pull us into present-moment awareness.
With each breath, we are right here, right now.
As long as we stay in the moment, we avoid being overwhelmed by future-based thoughts and the anxiety they create.
As Arsène Wenger, the great former manager of "Arsenal" once said, "The only moment of possible happiness is the present."
In this instant, there is only the here and now, and in the peace of the single breath, we're able to remain open, curious and exited.

So, during those rollercoaster moments, remember you have within you a tool to calm your anxiety.
Focus on the very thing that connects you to stillness.

Now, gently turn your attention back to the room.
Return to the sounds around you.
And when you're ready, open your eyes.

I hope you enjoyed today's daily calm.
Have a wonderful and we'll see you back here tomorrow.


